<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
 <head>
  <title>Thingsoup API Specification</title>
  <link href="style/headline-numbering.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="style/draft.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
 </head>

 <body>
  <div class="head">

   <!-- put banner here -->

   <h1 id="title_heading">Thingsoup API Specification</h1>
   <h2 class="no-num no-toc" id="draft_date">Brainstorming (<i>present day, present time</i>)</h2>

   <dl>
    <dt>Editor:</dt>
    <dd>Nils Dagsson Moskopp (<i>erlehmann</i>)</dd>
   </dl>

  <p class="copyright"/>

   <hr/>
  </div>

  <h2 class="no-num no-toc" id="abstract">Abstract</h2>

  <p>
   This specification defines an API that provides access to metainformation information associated with physical objects.
  </p>

  <h2 class="no-num no-toc" id="status">Status of This Document</h2>

  <p>
   This document was published by [[bla blupp]].
   If you wish to make comments regarding this document, please send
   them to <a href="http://groups.google.com/group/thingsoup-core/">thingsoup-core</a>.
  </p> 

  <p>
   All feedback is welcome.
  </p>

  <!--
  <h2 class="no-num no-toc" id="contents">Table of Contents</h2>
  -->

  <ul/>

  <h2 id="conformance">Conformance requirements</h2>

  <p>
   All diagrams, examples, and notes in this specification are
   non-normative, as are all sections explicitly marked non-normative.
   Everything else in this specification is normative.
  </p>

  <p>
   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", <!--"SHALL", "SHALL
   NOT",-->
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in the
   normative parts of this document are to be interpreted as described in
   RFC2119. For readability, these words do not appear in all uppercase
   letters in this specification. <a href="#ref-rfc2119">[RFC2119]</a>
   <!-- XXX but they should be
   marked up -->
  </p>

  <p>
   Requirements phrased in the imperative as part of algorithms (such as
   "strip any leading space characters" or "return false and abort these
   steps") are to be interpreted with the meaning of the key word ("must",
   "should", "may", etc) used in introducing the algorithm.
  </p>

  <p>
   Conformance requirements phrased as algorithms or specific steps may be
   implemented in any manner, so long as the end result is equivalent. (In
   particular, the algorithms defined in this specification are intended to
   be easy to follow, and not intended to be performant.)
  </p>

  <p id="hardwareLimitations">
   Implementors may impose implementation-specific
   limits on otherwise unconstrained inputs, e.g. to prevent denial of
   service attacks, to guard against running out of memory, or to work around
   platform-specific limitations.
  </p>

  <h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>

  <h2 id="scope">Scope</h2>

  <p class="note">
   This section is non-normative.
  </p>

  <h2 id="security">Security and privacy
   considerations</h2>

   <p>
   The API defined in this specification can be used to retrieve the geographic location of a physical object. In many cases, this information also discloses the location of the current user of the object, thereby potentially compromising the user's privacy. A conforming implementation of this specification must provide a mechanism that protects the user's privacy and this mechanism should ensure that no location information is made available without the user's express permission.
   </p>

  <h2 id="api_description">API Description</h2>

   <h3 id="api_description_terminology">Terminology</h3>

    <p>
     This document uses the following terms:
    </p>

    <h4>Datetime</h4>

     <p>
      A <i>datetime string</i> is a valid <a href="http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/common-microsyntaxes.html#valid-global-date-and-time-string">global date and time string</a> according to HTML5 Subsection 2.4.5.5. <a href="#ref-html5">[HTML5]</a>
     </p>

    <h4>Location</h4>

     <p>
      A <i>location string</i> is a valid http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-point/ [DCMIPOINT]
     </p>

    <h4>Physical size</h4>

    <p>
     A <i>physical size string</i> consists of the following components in the given order:
     <ol>
      <li>One or more digits, representing length in meters, where length ≥ 0</li>
      <li>A U+002E FULL STOP character (.)</li>
      <li>two digits, representing length in centimeters, where 100 > length ≥ 0</li>
      <li>A U+006D LATIN SMALL LETTER M character (m)</li>
      <li>A U+00D7 MULTIPLICATION SIGN character (×)</li>
      <li>One or more digits, representing width in meters, where width ≥ 0</li>
      <li>A U+002E FULL STOP character (.)</li>
      <li>two digits, representing width in centimeters, where 100 > width ≥ 0</li>
      <li>A U+006D LATIN SMALL LETTER M character (m)</li>
      <li>A U+00D7 MULTIPLICATION SIGN character (×)</li>
      <li>One or more digits, representing height in meters, where height ≥ 0</li>
      <li>A U+002E FULL STOP character (.)</li>
      <li>two digits, representing height in centimeters, where 100 > height ≥ 0</li>
      <li>A U+006D LATIN SMALL LETTER M character (m)</li>
     </ol>
    </p>

    <p class="example">
     1.02m×0.70m×0.28m
    </p>

    <dt>Text string</dt>
    <dd></dd>

    <dt>ID string</dt>
    <dd></dd>

   <h3 id="api_description_things">Thing interface</h3>

    <p>
     A thing is a logical object having several attributes containing technical and legal information associated with the described physical object. The information is acquired by creating a thing object, running an algorithm for gathering attribute-related data and populating the object attributes with appropriate data accordingly.
    </p>

    <p class="note">
     It is outside of the scope of this specification to define an algorithm for gathering attribute data.
    </p>

    <h4 id="api_description_thing_attributes">Attributes</h4>

     <h5 id="api_description_dc_terms">Dublin core attributes</h5>

      <p>
       Most metadata attributes are derived from a subset of the Dublin Core metadata terms <a href="#ref-dcterms">[DCTERMS]</a>. While Dublin Core suggests the use of <q>formal identification system[s]</q> and <q>controlled vocabular[ies]</q>, details are often left vague. For this purpose, the following table lists relations to 
      </p>

      <p class="note">
       For information about the definition of a term, refer to the Dublin Core metadata terms <a href="#ref-dcterms">[DCTERMS]</a>.
      </p>

      <table id="api_description_dc_elements_table">
       <thead>
        <tr>
         <th>term</th>
         <th>format</th>
         <th>mandatory</th>
         <th>multiple</th>
         <th>relation</th>
        </tr>
       </thead>
       <tbody>
        <tr>
         <td>identifier</td>
         <td>UUID</td>
         <td>yes</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>one to one</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>accessRights</td>
         <td>???</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
         <td>many to many</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>available</td>
         <td>datetime</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>no</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>contributor</td>
         <td>text</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>coverage</td>
         <td>location</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>no</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>created</td>
         <td>datetime</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>no</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>creator</td>
         <td>text</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>dateSubmitted</td>
         <td>datetime</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>no</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>description</td>
         <td>text</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>extent</td>
         <td>size</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>no</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>format</td>
         <td>string "physicalObject"</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>no</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>hasPart</td>
         <td>UUID</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>hasVersion</td>
         <td>UUID</td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>isPartof</td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>isRequiredBy</td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>isVersionOf</td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>language</td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td>license</td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td>yes</td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
         <td>no</td>
         <td></td>
         <td></td>
        </tr>
   
       </tbody>
      </table>

     <h5>Thingsoup attributes</h5>

  <h2 id="usecases">Use-Cases and Requirements</h2>

   <h3 id="usecases_section">Use-Cases</h3>

    <h4 id="usecase_borrowing">Borrowing things</h4>

    <p>
     <i>mntmn</i> sees a book at a friend's place.
     He wants to know the conditions under which he could take it home.
     (<a href="images/thingsoup-use-case-buch-praesentation.jpg">Illustration</a>).
    </p>

    <h4 id="usecase_limited_commons">Limited Commons</h4>

    <p>
     <i>moeffju</i> has a car. He wants to allow some of his friends to change its location.
    </p>

    <h4 id="usecase_depletable_commons">Depletable Commons</h4>

    <p>
     <i>plomlompom</i> has 500g cacoa powder stored in his cupboard at home. He wants to allow visitors to use this resource to make hot chocolate.
    </p>

   <h3 id="requirements_section">Requirements</h3>

    <h4>Associating physical objects with datasets</h4>

     <p>
      It is recommended that objects be associated with their respective datasets through use of their <abbr>UUID</abbr>. Implementors should not use other means of identification, to prevent difficulties resulting from differing proprietary means of identification. If they chose to do so regardless, the <abbr>UUID</abbr> must also be available in a machine-readable way.
     </p>
     <p>
      Making the <abbr>UUID</abbr> available can be accomplished in a matter of ways, a non-exhaustive list of which is noted here:
     </p>

     <ul>
      <li>Writing / printing the UUID of an object on the object itself or on a label near the object. It is recommended to use an <abbr title="Optical Character Recognition">OCR</abbr>-safe font for this.</li>
      <li><abbr title="two-dimensional">2D</abbr>-Barcodes, such as QR-Code or Data Matrix / Semacode [ISO/IEC 16002]</li>
      <li>Using radio tags, e.g. <abbr>RFID</abbr>.</li>
     </ul>

  <h2 class="no-num" id="acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</h2>

  <ul>
   <li>Kathrin Passig (<i>bilch</i>)</li>
   <li>Matthias Bauer (<i>moeffju</i>)</li>
   <li>Lukas Hartmann (<i>mntmn</i>)</li>
   <li>Christian Heller (<i>plomlompom</i>)</li>
  </ul>

  <h2 class="no-num" id="references">References</h2>

  <dl>
   <dt>
    <a id="ref-dctype">[DCTYPE]</a>
   </dt>
   <dd>
    <cite><a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-type-vocabulary/">DCMI Type Vocabulary</a></cite>.
   </dd>

   <dt>
    <a id="ref-html5">[HTML5]</a>
   </dt>
   <dd>
    <cite><a href="http://www.whatwg.org/specs/web-apps/current-work/multipage/">HTML5 (including next generation additions still in development)</a></cite>, Ian Hickson. Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group, February 2010.
   </dd>

   <dt>
    <a id="ref-rfc2119">[RFC2119]</a>
   </dt>
   <dd>
    <cite><a href="http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt">Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels</a></cite>, Scott Bradner. Internet Engineering Task Force, March 1997.
   </dd>

   <dt>
    <a id="ref-dcterms">[DCTERMS]</a>
   </dt>
   <dd>
    <cite><a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/">The Dublin Core Metadata Element Set</a></cite>, Dublin Core Metadata Initiative, January 2008.
   </dd>
  </dl>

</body> 
</html> 
